In this video, we're going to see how to verify if a set with given operations satisfies one of the eight defining vector space properties.
So in this particular example I have here,
we have been given this set of all pairs of real numbers and we have a couple operations for addition and scalar multiplication defined for us.
And we're going to verify that scalar multiplication distributes over vector addition.
So the basic idea is that we want to compute the left and the right hand sides of this identity and see if we end up with the same thing.
So let's start with the left hand side. So we want to compute, c is some scalar and multiply it by some other two vectors.
(x_1,y_1) plus (x_2,y_2).
So the convention is to follow the usual order of operations here. So that means that will operate inside the parentheses first.
So we'll do this addition inside first. So I'm just going to write down.
what we're going to do next. And then we'll go ahead and add (x_1,y_1) to (x_2,y_2)
When I say add, I have this funny addition symbol here, which means that we're going to follow this addition operation up here.
So we add (x_1,y_1) to (x_2,y_2) we get 2x_1+2x_2
In the second spot we have 2y_1+2y_2
Now we are going to do the scalar multiplication, following the rule for scalar multiplication,
up here the scalar multiplication rule says multiply the first component by C and the second component by C squared.
That's exactly what we'll do. We'll write down a C times the first component.
And then we'll write down a C squared times that second component.
And now we just have regular old real number multiplication and addition in here so we can distribute this out as we normally would.
And write 2cx_1+2cx_2
And in the second spot 2c^2y_1+2c^2y_2.
Now we're going to compute the right hand side of this identity.
So we write down c times (x_1,y_1)
plus c times (x_2,y_2).
And once again, we're following our usual convention of the order of operations, which simply says do multiplication first.
We'll do both of those scalar multiplications and then we'll add the resulting vectors together.
So to do scalar multiplication, our rule says multiply the first component by C and the second component by C squared.
So you get cx_1 and c^2y_1; for the second one will have cx_2 and c^2 y_2
Now, to add these two vectors together, we look at what our rule says to do, it says take the first components from each of them.
Multiply both by two and add them together.
The first component will take that cx_1 we'll multiply it by two and we'll add to that cx_2, which is the first component
of the second one multiplied by two. Now, what the rule says for the second spot is basically the same thing.
But with the second slots. So we'll take two times the second thing in the first one plus two times the second thing and the second one.
So two times in this case, we have c^2y_1 in the second spot of the first one plus c^2y_2 is in
the second spot and the second one and that gets multiplied by two and added to the.
And now if we look, that is exactly what we got when we computed the left hand side.
So our Left-Hand side is equal to our right hand side. Which shows that our set with these two operations.
Has this identity that scalar multiplication distributes over vector addition.